# Business-Cases
Exploring various business cases by using a wide range of statistical methods, visualization and machine learning techniques to analyze and solve each problem.

The first case involves A/B testing which consists of a randomized and controlled experiment with two variants, A and B, that allow to form a causal relationship with high probability in order to determine which of the two variants is more effective. For a business, this sort of testing gives valuable information when something new is being implemented and we want to know whether this implementation is worthwhile or we should stick to the old version or perhaps try something else. This could be, for example, when we try to understand user engagement and user satisfaction of online features such as a new feature or product. This analysis that utilizes statistical methods of hypothese testing allows companies to better understand growth, increase revenue, and optimize customer satisfaction. They are therefore an indispensable tool for many large companies, but also for smaller companies and startups by combining with Agile software development or through Minimum Viable Products (MVPs). The file [a_b_testing.ipynb](https://github.com/jajokine/Business-Cases/blob/main/a_b_testing.ipynb) is the Jupyter Notebook that contains all the code, visualizations and analysis of the project.

The second case deals with customer churn prediction with a data set that is from a telecom company. The churn rate is a critical metric for customer satisfaction and for measuring growth, as it tells you how many existing customers are leaving your business. By managing to lower the churn rate, we can have an impact on the business revenues and growth potential. Predicting the customer churn is especially important for Software as a Service (SaaS) business models that have subscription- and membership-based customers that use the services of a company frequently, but are in a sector where there are other companies that offer similar services, so predicting the customer satisfaction through the customer churn becomes a critical factor in order to succeed.  The file [customer_churn_prediction.ipynb](https://github.com/jajokine/Business-Cases/blob/main/customer_churn_prediction.ipynb) is the Jupyter Notebook that contains all the code, visualizations and analysis of the project.

The third case will explore customer segmentation with a data set from an eCommerce platform. The goal is to segment the customers who have bough items from the store into groups in order to run more targeted adds to the specific customer segments, and also to know what kind of goods we should have in our warehouse for the upcoming year so that we could maximize our revenues. Two different techniques will be implemented and the combined results will be used together to answer these questions. 

First, we will use a marketing technique called the RFM (Recency Frequency Monetary Value) model to differentiate customers based on a score that groups customers based on their purchase history in order to try to segment the customers from the most valuable to the least valuable. Afterwards, we will be using the K-means unsupervised machine learning technique to segment all the products into separate groups and analyze them by comparing to the customer segments. For businesses it is important to be able to segment the customers and the products into different groups so that they know better what the preferences of the customers are. The more knowledge you have of your current or future and potential customers, the better chances you have of meeting their expectations. Knowing and identifying the most potential and best customers has an impact on customer satisfaction and retention, and makes it easier to acquire new ones. These all lead to increased revenues and growth through better quality service that comes from better understanding the needs of each customer segment. The file [customer_segmentation.ipynb](https://github.com/jajokine/Business-Cases/blob/main/customer_segmentation.ipynb) is the Jupyter Notebook that contains all the code, visualizations and analysis of the project.
 

The fourth case involves the prediction of housing prices. There will be data from a housing market with a set of variables and the goal will be to find a model that predicts the price of a house as accurately as possible. Moreover, the model needs to be made in a way so that it is able to fetch new data to a database, make an update based on the new data, and provide a way for a user to make the price predictions as easily as possible. This enables the automation of the task in a way that it can also be accessed remotely in a convenient way. Businesses can use this kind of knowledge in making a database of an economic activity in order to analyze it so that it enables the prediction of the change or progress of that activity. Knowing something beforehand gives an advantage against competitors and offers a way to better reach to customers.

The fifth case will focus on the analysis of risk data. The idea will be to gather as much data as possible by using different techniques to prepare and enhance the data, understanding the focus from a business perspective, and telling a compelling story with effective data visualization and modeling that makes sense for the business owners. The visualizations will be made in an interactive way and the modeling will focus on ensemble techniques.

The sixth case involves creating a dashboard with Tableau/PowerBI that shows key metrics for a business that are updated in real-time. 
